docs/index.md, before:

# platanus
`platanus` is an fork of the B-tree library [`cpp-btree`](https://code.google.com/archive/p/cpp-btree/).


## Comparing to STL set/map
A btree is both smaller and faster than STL set/map.
The red-black tree implementation of STL set/map has an overhead of 3 pointers (left, right and parent) plus the node color information for each stored value.
So a `std::set<std::int32_t>` consumes 32 bytes for each value stored.
This btree implementation stores the fixed number of values on a nodes (usually 64) and doesn't store child
pointers for leaf nodes.
The result is that a `platanus::btree_set<std::int32>` may use much less memory per stored value.
For the random insertion benchmark in btree_test.cc, a `platanus::btree_set<std::int32_t>` with 64 values per node uses 4.64 bytes per stored value.

The packing of multiple values on to each node of a btree has another effect besides better space utilization: better cache locality due to fewer cache lines being accessed.
Better cache locality translates into faster operations.


## Feature
* satisfying alignment requirement,
* supporting stateful comparer,
* the standard C++ container-like interface,
* supporting CMake,
* easier to read than the original,
* supporting three-way comparison operator.


## Performance
Generally speaking, `platunus` is slower than `cpp-btree` by approximately 13%, but is faster than `std::(multi)set` and `std::(multi)map` by approximately 59% (the values are median and the order of B-tree is 65 (default)).
However, forwarding an iterator of `platanus` is extremely faster than doing that of STL, while FIFO of `platanus` is slower than that of STL by approximately 19%.
So, you should check how much the performance is improved.


## Limitation and caveats
### Supporting the orders of B-Tree
We need at least 3 values per a node in order to perform splitting (1 value for the two nodes involved in the split and 1 value propagated to the parent as the delimiter for the split). That is, We don't support the 3 order B-trees.

### Invalidating iterators after insertions and deletions
Insertions and deletions on a btree can cause splitting, merging or rebalancing of btree nodes.
And even without these operations, insertions and deletions on a btree will move values around within a node.
In both cases, the result is that insertions and deletions can invalidate iterators pointing to values other than the one being inserted/deleted.
This is notably different from STL set/map which takes care to not invalidate iterators on `insert`/`erase` except, of course, for iterators pointing to the value being erased.
A partial workaround when erasing is available: `erase()` returns an iterator pointing to the item just after the one that was erased (or `end()` if none exists).


## Installation
`platanus` is an header only library, so you don't have to install it.
When using CMake, you only have to link your program to `platanus`.
For example, `target_link_libraries(your_program PUBLIC platanus)`.


## Test
If you want to test, download and install the following libraries.

- [googletest](https://github.com/google/googletest)
- [benchmark](https://github.com/google/benchmark)

Then, run the following commands in the top directory of `platanus`.
```
cmake -S . -B build/debug -DBUILD_TESTS=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cd build/debug/test
./btree_test
```

### Performance test
If you want to check how much `platanus` is faster than STL, run the following commands.

```
cmake -S . -B build/release -DBUILD_TESTS=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cd build/release/benchmark
./btree_bench
```

The output has the following form.

```
BM_("stl" or "btree_(the max number of values per node)")_(container type)_(value type)_(test case) (average time[ns] per iteration) (the total of iterations)
```

The test cases are:

| test case | meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Insert | Benchmark insertion of values into a container. |
| Lookup | Benchmark lookup of values in a container. |
| Delete | Benchmark deletion of values from a container. |
| FwdIter | Iteration (forward) through the tree. |

If you want to know a good size of values per node, run the following comamnd.

```
cmake -S . -B build/release -DBUILD_TESTS=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DVALUES_SIZE_TEST
cd build/release/benchmark
./btree_bench
```

The result on my environment is [here](./benchmark_result.txt).


## License
`platanus` is licensed under [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).

Commit message:

add Wall flag when compiling test and benchmark and so on.
fix warnings.
fix documents.
rm gflags from CMakeLists.txt.

Signed-off-by: Yuya Asano <64895419+sukeya@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/index.md, after:

# platanus
`platanus` is an fork of the B-tree library [`cpp-btree`](https://code.google.com/archive/p/cpp-btree/).


## Comparing to STL set/map
A btree is both smaller and faster than STL set/map.
The red-black tree implementation of STL set/map has an overhead of 3 pointers (left, right and parent) plus the node color information for each stored value.
So a `std::set<std::int32_t>` consumes 32 bytes for each value stored.
This btree implementation stores the fixed number of values on a nodes (usually 64) and doesn't store child
pointers for leaf nodes.
The result is that a `platanus::btree_set<std::int32>` may use much less memory per stored value.
For the random insertion benchmark in btree_test.cc, a `platanus::btree_set<std::int32_t>` with 64 values per node uses 4.64 bytes per stored value.

The packing of multiple values on to each node of a btree has another effect besides better space utilization: better cache locality due to fewer cache lines being accessed.
Better cache locality translates into faster operations.


## Feature
* satisfying alignment requirement,
* supporting stateful comparer,
* the standard C++ container-like interface,
* supporting CMake,
* easier to read than the original,
* supporting three-way comparison operator.


## Performance
Generally speaking, `platunus` is slower than `cpp-btree` by approximately 13%, but is faster than `std::(multi)set` and `std::(multi)map` by approximately 59% (the values are median and the order of B-tree is 65 (default)).
However, forwarding an iterator of `platanus` is extremely faster than doing that of STL, while FIFO of `platanus` is slower than that of STL by approximately 19%.
So, you should check how much the performance is improved.


## Limitation and caveats
### Supporting the orders of B-Tree
We need at least 3 values per a node in order to perform splitting (1 value for the two nodes involved in the split and 1 value propagated to the parent as the delimiter for the split). That is, We don't support the 3 order B-trees.

### Invalidating iterators after insertions and deletions
Insertions and deletions on a btree can cause splitting, merging or rebalancing of btree nodes.
And even without these operations, insertions and deletions on a btree will move values around within a node.
In both cases, the result is that insertions and deletions can invalidate iterators pointing to values other than the one being inserted/deleted.
This is notably different from STL set/map which takes care to not invalidate iterators on `insert`/`erase` except, of course, for iterators pointing to the value being erased.
A partial workaround when erasing is available: `erase()` returns an iterator pointing to the item just after the one that was erased (or `end()` if none exists).


## Installation
`platanus` is an header only library, so you don't have to install it.
When using CMake, you only have to link your program to `platanus`.
For example, `target_link_libraries(your_program PUBLIC platanus)`.


## Test
If you want to test, download and install the following libraries.

- [googletest](https://github.com/google/googletest)
- [benchmark](https://github.com/google/benchmark)

Then, run the following commands in the top directory of `platanus`.
```
cmake -S . -B build/debug -DBUILD_TESTS=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cd build/debug/test
./btree_test
```

### Performance test
If you want to check how much `platanus` is faster than STL, run the following commands.

```
cmake -S . -B build/release -DBUILD_TESTS=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cd build/release/benchmark
./btree_bench
```

The output has the following form.

```
BM_<("STL" or "BTree")(container type)<(value type)[, (the max number of values per node)]>> (average time[ns] per iteration) (average CPU time[ns] per iteration) (the total of iterations)
```

The test cases are:

| test case | meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Insert | Benchmark insertion of random values into an empty container. |
| Lookup | Benchmark lookup of random values in a container. |
| Delete | Benchmark deletion of random values from a container. |
| FwdIter | Benchmark iteration (forward) through the container. |
| Merge | Benchmark merging two containers with the same size. |

If you want to know a good size of values per node, run the following comamnd.

```
cmake -S . -B build/release -DBUILD_TESTS=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DVALUES_SIZE_TEST
cd build/release/benchmark
./btree_bench
```

The result on my environment is [here](./benchmark_result.txt).


## License
`platanus` is licensed under [Apache License, Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).
